---
layout: post
title: "Being Laid Off | Part 2"
date:   2020-07-19 16:03:30 +0300
image: 06.jpg
tags: Life
---

## Grieving 
I couldn’t find my inner voice. We lost contact a long time ago. I couldn’t hear her through my anxiety which had grown so immense in the place of my positive-self. I found anxiety is all that was left. Snap, break,  crumble the thoughts are no longer able to connect and the synapse of neurons have now snapped. Stress is my lord now. 

I was no longer able to concentrate on my journey and part of me felt like it had died. I am so thankful that our souls have the power to regenerate because this is the part of the story where the hero accepts her mistakes and comes away from this stronger. 

At some point in all of the inner turmoil, stress, and anxiety. I was able to see a way through this. I had to let go of the person I had become and return to the person I always was. I had to be brave enough to find my true passions. I didn’t suck at my job. I sucked at taking the time to do things right, to read things through, and to ask better questions. I wanted to let go of my fear of success. Success gives one more things to lose at least that is how I saw it. When fear becomes your god it’s hard to see it any other way.

However, there is another way. It’s called forgiveness. I had to forgive myself for failure. Believe me the prayers started but that’s another topic for a different day. Yes, the higher powers were going to hear from me. I had a lot of apologies to make. I mostly had to apologize for not loving myself. I had to see my positives and accept them as truths. 

I am so sorry self you aren’t so bad please just start reading the damn doc’s.  
