---
layout: post
title:  I aim to be the Granny Weatherwax of free software
date:   2020-07-15 16:03:30 +0300
image:  granny.jpg
tags:   Life
---

# I aim to be the Granny Weatherwax of free software

I have recently had cause to sit back and wonder what the second half of my life is going to look like. I don’t see many role models. [Older women are under represented in media generally](https://www.vulture.com/2013/04/leading-men-age-but-their-love-interests-dont.html), and the ones I see don’t match my vision for my life’s trajectory. When I think about the kind of old woman I want to become, there’s really only one role model I can look to: [Granny Weatherwax](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Granny_Weatherwax). 

Granny Weatherwax is a character from Terry Pratchett’s [Discworld](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discworld) series. Perhaps she comes to mind because the Discworld series has played an out-sized role in my life, particularly my professional life. Twenty years ago I was a shell-shocked recent arrival in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, intimidated but thrilled to be working at [SunSITE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunsite) Alberta. I was an apprentice Solaris sysadmin for the university and the first order of business was to read and understand all of the Discworld books because everything everywhere was named after a Terry Pratchett character. It might be important, say, to understand that a storage system called “[The Luggage](https://discworld.fandom.com/wiki/The_Luggage)” was just as likely to eat data as to give it back to you unharmed. 

And also, they’re brilliant books. I didn’t mind at all immersing myself in that world. I saw much there to appreciate and it made up for the fact that I had to place support calls for servers with names like “thighbiter” and “littlebottom”. Granny Weatherwax, in this world, is a witch. She’s powerful, but down to earth. She has a different path through magic than the wizards at Unseen University. Wizards are gatekeepers of magic. Though powerful, they often appear willfully ignorant of common sense and human psychology. Wizards disdain women, and women’s magic. Witches, on the other hand, wield magic that is rooted in daily practice. Witches aim for balance and sustainability, not ego inflation. There is a saying that sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic, and learning my new job often felt like being in magic school. There were certainly long lists of arcane incantations to memorize. 

So back then, twenty years ago, desperately absorbing the many minutiae of late-1990s UNIX system administration, basking in the Free Software greatness that was the University of Alberta computer science department, I eagerly attended a campus talk by [Richard Stallman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Stallman). He appeared in wizard robes. I think? Maybe they were more like religious vestments? He was carrying a staff like a Christian leader might in some traditions. He gave an inspiring talk about the importance of the free software movement (NOTE: not exactly the same as the “open source” movement. Stallman has a good point here.) I was very into it, as was the crowd. [This university was known for its free software contributions](https://www.openbsd.org/hackathons.html); these folks loved Stallman devotedly, and I could see why. I loved the theatricality of it. I loved the feeling of being called to crusade. The idea that the Christian iconography might have looked different to my office mates, most of whom were Muslim or Sikh, only occurred to me recently. I was, however, aware that I was one of perhaps five women in a crowded auditorium of pumped up young men.  I was used to that. It made me nervous sometimes but the levels of harassment were nowhere near what I’d experienced in private industry so I mostly kept my mouth shut about it, found it a point of pride almost. My friend Diana, the only woman computer science major in her year, was constantly being asked if she was waiting for her boyfriend whenever she had a smoke outside the CS building. It felt like she and I shared a certain pride in how astonishing people seemed to find our presence.

And then, Richard Stallman wrapped up his speech with an exhortation. VI, was, he said, the best UNIX editor. “And to all of you excited young men out there, I want you to go out and spread the good word! Get people using VI! Find a girl and take her VI-VIrginity!” he finished with an earnest shout, and was greeted with loud cheers from the audience. And suddenly I couldn’t breathe. Suddenly I knew that hundreds of predatory eyes were on me and that I had to escape at any cost. I can’t explain it better than that. No one said anything to me. No one threatened me. But some combination of my conditioning and that environment made me believe I needed to run for my life. 

Whenever someone finds out I’m in open source software these days, seems like they want to ask me about Richard Stallman. Is he being treated fairly? I don’t know. But maybe it’s not a bad thing sometimes for us to update our parameters of acceptable discourse, and to think about who isn’t represented in a movement and to ask if maybe there are reasons some people wouldn’t want to participate. We might ask whose voices we aren’t hearing because some voices are so loud. Maybe it’s okay for those loud voices to rest for a little while and listen instead. 

And maybe I’m feeling brave enough to write about software again. It used to help me to keep a blog. Writing about my work lets me consolidate lessons more deeply, and it also creates a record I can refer back to on future projects. I am keeping my old blog title, Solvitur Ambulando, It’s still my motto, and feeling more true than ever. I am setting up shop as a hedge witch. I have some observations about Vampires vs Werewolves to share with you. 